I've had my iPhone 5 for a few weeks now and it's been a very satisfying upgrade. Whenever I spend money on gadgets I get nervous; I was happy with with the iPhone 4 and to wait out this generation. 

In the end I found a local seller who had the iPhone 5 in stock sim free and decided to give it a go. As a sim free device I knew I could sell it on for pretty much what I paid for it if I decided it was not worth the cost. 

I have been upgrading my iPhone alternate generations since my original iPhone 3G back in 2008. Generally it means I get the first version of each new form factor, or at least that's how it's swung so far. 

Unlike the iPhone 4 upgrade which had the move to a retina screen, very different form factor and much faster internals this update is far more incremental. While the iPhone 5 is a new form factor I think the differences are less pronounced. 

The main two big differences are the bigger screen and the lightness. 

h3. 4" Screen

For this generation of iPhone Apple changed size of the screen for the first time. All previous iPhones have a 3.5" screen but the iPhone 5 moves to a 4" screen.

The change sounds pretty small and as things go its not that remarkable. The 4" screen offers a little extra space which comes in handy. I mostly use my phone for reading and writing , so the extra space comes in handy. 

I do find myself using a more varied grip. I used to hold my phone lengthways but that's no longer comfortable. I now tend to hold the phone in landscape . One major bug bear for me has been the voice dictation button. It's perfectly placed for accidental key presses when I am trying to input numbers and symbols. I am slowly getting use to it but really wish it could be disabled without disabling all of Siri.

Talking of Siri, the three or four times I have remembered it was there it has been useful. It's an amazing bit of tech but not all that useful to me. However the new option to speak selected text is very useful to me. I have been relying on VoiceOver less for my day to day needs.


h3. A little lighter

The other form factor change is weight. The iPhone. 5 is much lighter than my old iPhone 4 which is nice. It feels nice in the hand and means its less of a strain to hold I suppose. Truth be told the iPhone 4 was plenty light enough!

h3. Much faster & lasts longer

The iPhone 5 is really really fast. It's very pleasant to use and the battery life seems to last quite a lot longer. I use to have multiple chargers dotted around the place for a mid afternoon charge. This is no longer the case. 

According to some benchmarks the iPhone 5 is only 10% slower than my MacBook Air. From my experience I cannot really tell. Both systems feel fast at doing their stuff so at the end of the day I don't think it matters much.

All in I am very happy with my purchase and look forward to another two years of iPhone bases happyness. 